# Panel ESP32-8048S043C


# HomeDing Display Example

This example is about using the HomeDing library to implement a device with a
large (600*600 px) display.

waiting for IDF 5.1 in espressif/arduino ...


There are some boards available that already combine display, touchscreen and processor.
The one used here is labeled **ESP32-8048S043C** from <http://www.jczn1688.com> and available
on AliExpress. On the web site you find documentation but be they seem not to fit to the current boards.
Some testing was required.

These type of boards are available in various versions with different displays and touchscreen
drivers and this example may be adapted to other configurations when required.

The **ESP32-8048S043C** has the following components:

* ESP32-S3 Processor
* 16M Flash Memory
* 8M PSRAM
* I2C bus using SDA=19, CLK=20
* Display: ST7262: 4.3 inch, 800 * 480 px, 16 bit color, parallel mode
* Touch Sensor: GT911 on I2C, Address 0x5D
* SD Card

Download of files is available at <http://www.jczn1688.com/zlxz>, Download passwort: jczn1688

<!-- <https://github.com/PaulStoffregen/XPT2046_Touchscreen> -->

<!-- ## ESP3248S035 -->

## Display

// option 1:
// ST7262 IPS LCD 800x480
 Arduino_RPi_DPI_RGBPanel *gfx = new Arduino_RPi_DPI_RGBPanel(
   bus,
   800 /* width */, 0 /* hsync_polarity */, 8 /* hsync_front_porch */, 4 /* hsync_pulse_width */, 8 /* hsync_back_porch */,
   480 /* height */, 0 /* vsync_polarity */, 8 /* vsync_front_porch */, 4 /* vsync_pulse_width */, 8 /* vsync_back_porch */,
   1 /* pclk_active_neg */, 16000000 /* prefer_speed */, true /* auto_flush */);

The display is connected to the Processor using 4 control signals and 16 data signals.
It is designed to use DMA to transfer the display data from RAM to the display.

It uses 16 bits per pixel and 16 data pins with

* 5 bits for red
* 6 bits for green
* 5 bits for blue

These kind of displays are supported by the Adafruit_GFX library using the GFXcanvas16 class that draws
all graphics to a memory buffer.
To implement a displayAdapter this class can be used. Instead of sending the graphic bits to the display
over a SPI or I2C bus a DMA transfer can be configured that is triggered upon
finishing drawing of an element
and continues sending the pixesl to the display in the background.

The connection for the display is configured using the following pins:

| #      |    0 |    1 |    2 |    3 |    4 |    5 |    6 |    7 |    8 |    9 |   10 |   11 |   12 |   13 |   14 |   15 |
| ------ | ---: | ---: | ---: | ---: | ---: | ---: | ---: | ---: | ---: | ---: | ---: | ---: | ---: | ---: | ---: | ---: |
| signal |   r4 |   r3 |   r2 |   r1 |   r0 |   g5 |   g4 |   g3 |   g2 |   g1 |   g0 |   b4 |   b3 |   b2 |   b1 |   b0 |
| GPIO   |    8 |    3 |   46 |    9 |    1 |    5 |    6 |    7 |   15 |   16 |    4 |   45 |   48 |   47 |   21 |   14 |

The RAM for the display image is allocated in the PSRAM using 800*400*2 bytes = 640.000 bytes = **625 kBytes**.

HSYNC io39
VSYNC io41
DE io40
DCLK 42???

    40 /* DE */, 41 /* VSYNC */, 39 /* HSYNC */, 42 /* PCLK */,

All these details are used to populate a `esp_lcd_rgb_panel_config_t` structure
to configure the DMA that is used to drive a RGB panel.

Arduino_ESP32RGBPanel *bus = new Arduino_ESP32RGBPanel(
    GFX_NOT_DEFINED /* CS */, GFX_NOT_DEFINED /* SCK */, GFX_NOT_DEFINED /* SDA */,
    40 /* DE */, 41 /* VSYNC */, 39 /* HSYNC */, 42 /* PCLK */,

    45 /* R0 */, 48 /* R1 */, 47 /* R2 */, 21 /* R3 */, 14 /* R4 */,
    5  /* G0 */, 6  /* G1 */, 7  /* G2 */, 15 /* G3 */, 16 /* G4 */, 4 /* G5 */,
    8  /* B0 */, 3  /* B1 */, 46 /* B2 */, 9  /* B3 */, 1  /* B4 */

* ESP32-S3 DMA (EDMA) with PSRAM and LCD
  <https://esp32.com/viewtopic.php?t=24096>


### Backlight control

TFT_BL GPIO02

### Drawing in the Display Buffer

The AdaFruit GFX library offers the functionality to draw the graphics and text in a
16 bits per pixel buffer that fits for RGB panels.  

## Touch panel

TAMC_GT911

## connectors

HC 1.25  4pwt

* Serial Interface
* 11, 12, 13, 19
* 17, 18 GND, 3v3
* 17, 18, 19, 20

ESP3248S035

<http://www.jczn1688.com/zlxz>
Download passwort: jczn1688


clk_src 0

timings:
 pclk_hz 16000000
 h_res 800
 v_res 480
 hsync_pulse_width 4
 hsync_back_porch 8
 hsync_front_porch 8
 vsync_pulse_width 4
 vsync_back_porch 8
 vsync_front_porch 8
 flags.hsync_idle_low 1
 flags.vsync_idle_low 1
 flags.de_idle_high 0
 flags.pclk_active_neg 1
 flags.pclk_idle_high 0

data_width 16
sram_trans_align 8
psram_trans_align 64
hsync_gpio_num 39
vsync_gpio_num 41
de_gpio_num 40
pclk_gpio_num 42

data_gpio_nums[0] 8
data_gpio_nums[1] 3
data_gpio_nums[2] 46
data_gpio_nums[3] 9
data_gpio_nums[4] 1
data_gpio_nums[5] 5
data_gpio_nums[6] 6
data_gpio_nums[7] 7
data_gpio_nums[8] 15
data_gpio_nums[9] 16
data_gpio_nums[10] 4
data_gpio_nums[11] 45
data_gpio_nums[12] 48
data_gpio_nums[13] 47
data_gpio_nums[14] 21
data_gpio_nums[15] 14
_useBigEndian 0
_useBigEndian 0


## Adafruit_GFX restrictions and rework requests

Canvas classes cannot be sub-classed for implementing specific displays:

* The buffer allocation is inside the provate implementation and cannot be changed.
Some displays require display memory to be allocated in a specific way e. g. when display is using DMA for data transfer.

* Colors are fixed to maximum 16 bit (physical) within all color parameters
  but displays supporting rgb888 (24 bit) are already available.

* Graphical "objects" like buttons should by refactored to be additional objects.
  As they may overlap or update on their own a layer upon the GFX is required to redraw defined objects when required.

* Some implementations treat "textsize" as a multiple of the builtin font size. A "registered/available" fonts manager is missing.

* uint16_t color - to color type definitions
* may include a color scheme for objects.

* buffer memory allocation and handling is
