---
title: BH1750 Element
# icon: Dallas
tags: ["Element", "Sensor"]
layout: "page.njk"
description: Support of the environment light sensor based on the BH1750 chip.
excerpt: >
  The BH1750Element allows retrieving the environment light intensity from BH1750 Ambient Light based sensors
  using the i2c bus for communication
---

From the values of the sensor the lightness in lumen (lx) can directly be calculated as the sensor delivers a linear equivalence.

The actual conversion factor can be given by a setup parameter.

The i2c bus interface offers a simple communication implementation with the sensor so no external library is required.

The sensor offers 3 different resolutions each in continuous or single measurement mode.
The Element implementation supports the 3 modes of taking single probes and the timing parameters of the [Sensor Element] implementation.


## Element Configuration

<!-- <object data="/element.svg?bh1750" type="image/svg+xml"></object> -->

The following properties are available for configuration of the element:

> **address** -- The I2C Address of the sensor. The default value is 0x23.
>
> **factor** -- The factor used to convert the raw sensor value into lumen (lx). The default value is
1.2 from the datasheet.
>
> **mode** -- The following probing modes are supported by the element implementation:
>
> * `0`: 1 lux resolution, Measurement time about 120ms.
>
> * `1`: 0.5 lux resolution, Measurement time about 120ms.
>
> * `3`: 4 lux resolution, Measurement time about 16ms.


{% include "./sensorproperties.md" %}

{% include "./elementproperties.md" %}


### Configuration Example

``` json
}
  "bh1750": {
    "daylight": {
      "address": "0x23",
      "readtime": "30s"
    }
  }
}
```

## State

The following properties are available with the current values at runtime:

> **active** -- Is set to true when the element is active.
>
> **value** -- The current sensor value.


### Example State

``` json
{
  "bh1750/new": {
    "active":"true",
    "value":"705.6"
  }
}
```


## See also

* <https://randomnerdtutorials.com/esp8266-nodemcu-bh1750-ambient-light-sensor/>


[Sensor Element]: /elements/sensor.md
